The application.properties file configures our datasource.
We specify the datasource.url, the username, and the password.
Then, we define the driver‑class, which in this case is the mariadb.jdbc.Driver.
Finally,
we set the initialization mode to always so that Spring will
read our schema.sql file and execute it.
The schema.sql file creates the reservation table if it does not exist,
and then deletes all rows from the reservation table.
We do this just to clean up any data that may be
lingering around from a previous run.
The JdbcInboundConfig is a Spring configuration file that creates two channels.
The newReservationChannel is the channel to which
individual reservations will be published,
and the newReservationListChannel is the channel to which the results of
our query will be published as a list. We define a MessageSource Bean
with an InboundChannelAdapter that publishes messages to the
newReservationListChannel and has a poller that triggers the
MessageSource every 1 second. Inside the method,
we created a JdbcPollingChannelAdapter, passing it a dataSource that
Spring automatically creates for us, and the SELECT statement to
execute every time it's invoked by the poller.
In this case,
we select all rows from the reservation table with a status value of 0. Because
this query will return a JDBC result set, we define a RowMapper that receives
the result set in the index of the row in the list and returns a new
reservation with the values in the result set.
Finally,
we set the JdbcPollingChannelAdapter's UpdateSql property with a SQL
statement to execute after the SELECT has completed. We update all
rows in the reservation table with the IDs returned in the SELECT
statement, setting the status to 1.
This is an optional step, but if we don't do it,
then we'll process those rows again.
The JdbcPollingChannelAdapter will return a list of reservations, so
we publish that to a newReservationListChannel,
which is handled by a splitter.
Recall that a splitter is responsible for receiving one
message and returning multiple messages.
We extract the message payload,
which is a list of reservations, and return that list of reservations.
The splitter will create new messages with those reservations as the message
payload and publish them to the newReservationChannel.
This way, the ReservationListener class,
which will be listening on the newReservationChannel,
will receive one message for each reservation in the list.
A reservation is a plain old Java object that manages id and name properties.
The ReservationListener is a Spring service with a ServiceActivator that
listens for messages on the newReservationChannel.
They handle Reservation method, receives a reservation, and logs it.
Now let's look at how to write data to MariaDB
using an outbound channel adaptor.
The JdbcOutboundConfig is a Spring configuration class.
We create a new DirectChannel named createReservationChannel, and
then a message handler with a ServiceActivator that listens for
messages on the createReservationChannel.
For this implementation, we created JdbcMessageHandler, passing it a data
source that Spring creates for us using the dataSource properties in our
application.properties file when it sees the MySQL JDBC connector in our
class path. We also pass the INSERT SQL statement that we want to execute
when a message arrives on the createReservationChannel to the
jdbcMessageHandler constructor.
Because the message will contain a reservation and the jdbcMessageHandler will
create a prepared statement to execute the INSERT statement,
we set its PreparedStatementSetter to translate a
Reservations field to the prepared statement.
The setPreparedStatementSetter method accepts a message PreparedStatementSetter,
which we can implement with the lambda expression that
accepts a PreparedStatement instance.
We extract the Payload of the action, casting it to a Reservation.
Then we set the two values called out in the INSERT statement.
The first is the reservation ID, and the second is the reservation name.
Finally,
we create a MessagingGateway named CreateReservationGateway that
publishes messages to the createReservationChannel when its
createReservation method is called with a reservation.
The ReservationService is a Spring service with a
CreateReservationGateway wired into it that publishes a
reservation to the createReservationChannel through the gateway
when its createReservation method is called.
Finally,
the JdbcExampleApplication is a command‑line Spring boot application with the
ReservationService wired into it that creates five reservations and publishes
them to the ReservationService with a 1‑second delay.
Let's run the code and review the logs. From the logs, we can see the
ReservationService publishing each reservation,
and we can see the ReservationListener receiving each reservation.
In this section,
we learned how to integrate databases into Spring integration
application using its JDBC support. We saw that the
JdbcPollingChannelAdapter fills the role of an InboundChannelAdapter.
It executes a query using a poller and publishes the
results of that query to a message channel.
The JdbcMessageHandler fills the role of an OutboundChannelAdapter.
It receives a message through a ServiceActivator and executes a
SQL statement with the contents of the message.
In the next section,
we're going to review how to integrate MongoDB into our Spring integration applications.